Qualtrics (#185)
ubvu/open-handbook: topics/qualtrics.qmd

##  

 

## [Creating and Accessing User Accounts]()

The VU Qualtrics Central Brand (hereafter VU’s Central Brand) at [vuamsterdam.eu.qualtrics.com] allows for user’s auto-enrolment, an automated account creation and registration process. Any user having an enabled VU email address may auto-enrol on VU’s Central Brand. The email address will function as the account’s username.

VU’s Central Brand makes use of Single-Sign On (SSO). This means that users can log in to Qualtrics using VU’s internal login system.

**** 

**To create a user account and access the Qualtrics environment** at the Central Brand, please proceed as follows:

 

1.      Go to: [https://vuamsterdam.eu.qualtrics.com](https://vuamsterdam.eu.qualtrics.com)

2.      On the login page, choose: Vrije Universiteit SSO

> 3.      Log in with your VU account credentials (e-mail address and password)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.      Log in with your VU account credentials (email address and password)
```

 

VU’s Central Brand Login Page:

[]()

It is recommended saving VU’s Central Brand internet address (URL) as a Favourite or Bookmark link for future reference.  

 

 

Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) is mandatory to all Qualtrics users utilizing the **vuamsterdam** brand.  

MFA acts as an additional layer of security to prevent unauthorized users from accessing accounts and resources, even when the password has been stolen.  Qualtrics will use multi-factor authentication to validate user identity and provide quick and convenient access to authorized users.  

 

 

[ ]()

## Note to Existing Users

### [Security Settings: Login Error Disabled Account]()

 

 

 

> Security  settings are in place which set an user account to [Status: Disabled] when a certain inactivity threshold is reached. This threshold is currently 12 months. This setting follows security requirements regarding User Account Management (SISO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security  settings are in place which set a user account to [Status: Disabled] when a certain inactivity threshold is reached. This threshold is currently 12 months. This setting follows security requirements regarding User Account Management (SISO).
```

A disabled account status does not affect its data.  

> Users who receive an error [User account is disabled] when trying to log back in after an inactivity period should contact the RDM Support Desk to have their accounts re-enabled (see Available Support).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users who receive an error [User account is disabled] when trying to log back in after an inactivity period should contact the [RDM Support Desk](mailto:rdm@vu.nl) to have their accounts re-enabled.
```
